Specs TXC: adding routes (#308)
CanalTP/transit_model: src/documentation/transxchange_read.md

stops used in the TransXChange feed. The National Public Transport Access Nodes ([NaPTAN](http://naptan.app.dft.gov.uk/DataRequest/Naptan.ashx?format=csv)) database 
is a UK nationwide system for uniquely identifying all the points of access to public transport in the UK.

This version of the connector handles TranXChange files with a single *Service* 

> specifying one or more *Lines*. Multiple *Service*s will be possibly considered in a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifying one or more *Lines*. Multiple *Services* will be possibly considered in a 
```

--- | --- | ---
line_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode* | This field is prefixed.
line_code | *Services/Service/Lines/Line/LineName* |

> line_name | *Services/Service/Description* | If no *Description* is found, then this field is computed using the name of the first associated Route in the forward direction. If several forward routes exist, the one with the smallest `route_id` is used.

Reviewer: > The one with the smallest `route_id` is used

Is it about the length of String? What if there is 2 routes with a `route_id` of the same length?

It feels like it doesn't matter which one we're choosing if several forward routes are found, the only constraint might be that it is consistently the same one that is chosen, am I right?

Author: It is the "smallest" in alphabetical order mostly, I will add a precision in the next commit. And yes, the idea is that the first trip is consistently chosen in the same way.

forward_line_name | *Services/Service/StandardService/Destination* | 
forward_direction |  | This field should have the same value as the `destination_id` of the first associated Route in the forward direction. If several forward routes exist, the one with the smallest `route_id` is used.
backward_line_name | *Services/Service/StandardService/Origin* | 

> backward_direction |  | This field should have the same value as the `destination_id` of the first associated Route in the backward direction. If several backward routes exist, the one with the smallest `route_id` is used.

Reviewer 2: It must be origin_id I think

Reviewer 3: @ArnaudOggy ot's OK like that, it's the destination of the backward route

trolleyBus | Shuttle | Shuttle | Shuttle | Shuttle

### routes.txt
A Route is created from a line and a direction of journey patterns (*StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction*).

NTFS field | TransXChange element | Mapping rule/Comment
--- | --- | ---

> route_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode*, *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | This field is prefixed and formed by the concatenation of *Services/Service/ServiceCode* and *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* separated by a `:`. Ex. "\<prefix>:1_58_BC:inbound".

Reviewer: Do you think it would be correct to specify this as
```suggestion
route_id | line_id, *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | This field is prefixed and formed by the concatenation of the line ID and *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* separated by a `:`. Ex. "\<prefix>:1_58_BC:inbound".
```
It feels that if we ever change what is going to define what is a line ID, then we're gonna need to adapt the route ID... unless we define them already based on the line ID. Would it be correct to say that?

Reviewer 4: `line_id` is more related to the implementation. I would leave `Services/Service/ServiceCode` to not mix things coming from NTFS and transxchange

Reviewer: We discussed it with @papailio and `line_id` is not gonna be used.

route_name |  | "[first stop of the first trip] - [last stop of the first trip]" (1)

> direction_type | *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | The value is set to `inbound` or `clockwise` when the specified value for the direction is `inboundAndOutbound` or `circular`, respectively.

Reviewer: What if it's another value? We just take the same value as `StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction`?

> direction_type | *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | The value is set to `inbound` or `clockwise` when the specified value for the direction is `inboundAndOutbound` or `circular`, respectively.

Reviewer: What if, in the same file, I find 2 `StandardService/JourneyPattern`, first one having direction `inbound` and the second one having the direction `inboundAndOutbound`? It will create the same ID for both routes hence a collision.

> direction_type | *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | The value is set to `inbound` or `clockwise` when the specified value for the direction is `inboundAndOutbound` or `circular`, respectively.

Reviewer: What if I have 2 `StandardService/JourneyPattern`, the first one having a direction `inbound` and the second one having a direction `inboundAndOutbound`. Is that fine that in the end, we'll have 2 routes, both `inbound` on the same line? The IDs won't collide because they will be `line_id:inbound` and `line_id:inboundAndOutbound`.

Author: For now, I would be ok with 2 distinct routes (different ids) with the same direction inbound (or circular).

line_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode* | This field is prefixed. Link to the file [lines.txt](#linestxt).
destination_id | *???* | `stop_id` of the stop_area of the last stop of the first trip. (1)

> (1) The first trip of a route is the one with the smallest `trip_id` value.

Reviewer: Basically same remark than in [this comment](https://github.com/CanalTP/transit_model/pull/308/files#r310494349).

tram | Tramway | Tramway| Tramway| Tramway
trolleyBus | Shuttle | Shuttle | Shuttle | Shuttle

If *Services/Service/Mode* is not specified or the value is unknown (a different value than those listed above), the default mode `Bus` is used.

### routes.txt
A Route is created from a line and a direction of journey patterns (*StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction*).

NTFS field | TransXChange element | Mapping rule/Comment
--- | --- | ---
route_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode*, *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | This field is prefixed and formed by the concatenation of *Services/Service/ServiceCode* and *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* separated by a `:`. Ex. "\<prefix>:1_58_BC:inbound".
route_name |  | "[first stop of the first trip] - [last stop of the first trip]" (1)
direction_type | *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | The value is set to `inbound` or `clockwise` when the specified value for the direction is `inboundAndOutbound` or `circular`, respectively.

> line_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode* | This field is prefixed. Link to the file [lines.txt](#linestxt).

Reviewer: I think this will need to use `LineRef` to find the correct line and then concatenate the `ServiceCode` + `Line/id`.

NTFS field | TransXChange element | Mapping rule/Comment
--- | --- | ---
route_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode*, *Services/Service/Line{id}* *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | This field is prefixed and formed by the concatenation of *Services/Service/ServiceCode*, *Services/Service/Line{id}* and *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* separated by a `:`. Ex. "\<prefix>:1_58_BC:SL1:inbound".
route_name |  | "[first stop of the first trip] - [last stop of the first trip]" (1)
direction_type | *StandardService/JourneyPattern/Direction* | The value is set to `inbound` or `clockwise` when the specified value for the direction is `inboundAndOutbound` or `circular`, respectively.
line_id | *Services/Service/ServiceCode*, *Services/Service/Line{id}* | This field is prefixed. Link to the file [lines.txt](#linestxt).
destination_id |  | `stop_id` of the stop_area of the last stop of the first trip (1). Link to the file [stops.txt](#stopstxt).

(1) The first trip (in alphabetical order) of a route is the one with the smallest `trip_id` value.

### calendar_dates.txt

> The validity period of a service is stated in *Services/Service/OperatingPeriod*. In case the validity period is open ended (the *EndDate* is not specified), the default value [*StartDate* + 180 days] should be used.

Reviewer: Some of the data are showing `EndDate` like `9999-01-01`. The proposition in this case is to limit to `StartDate + 2 year`.

Note: It is mostly a technical reason due to the fact that the connector is creating a list of all the dates.

Reviewer 3: As the `StartDate` could be far in the past, we cannot use a `StartDate + 2Y`. Instead, will add a mandatory parameter specifying the EndDate of the loaded data to specify (or truncate) calendars.

In some (rare) cases, a *VehicleJourney* might specify explicitly some timing links 
that are different from the underlying *JourneyPattern*. In this case, a 
*VehicleJourneyTimingLink* overrides any common property it shares with a *JourneyPatternTimingLink*.

#### Computing passing times at each stoppoint
The arrival/departure time for the first stoppoint of a trip is explicitly specified 
in *VehicleJourney/DepartureTime*. For each subsequent stoppoint, the passing time is 
calculated from the cumulative sum of the current *JourneyPatternTimingLink* values 
for all preceding stops in the journey link sequence as follows:
- arrival_time at stoppoint<sub>n</sub> = departure_time from stop<sub>n-1</sub> + (*RunTime* for inbound link from stop<sub>n-1</sub>)
- departure_time at stop<sub>n</sub> = arrival_time at stop<sub>n</sub> + *WaitTime* for destination end of inbound link from stop<sub>n-1</sub>) + *WaitTime* for origin of outbound link to stop<sub>n+1</sub>

If *WaitTime* is not specified, the default waiting time at a stoppoint is considered `0`.

Note that *RunTime* and *WaitTime* are given as [durations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601#Durations).

> Except from the first stoppoint of the trip, the arrival end (*JourneyPatternTimingLink/To*) 

Reviewer 2: We reversed with the use of JourneyPatternTimingLink/From, so the except is on last stop.
No problem, the result is the same.
